feat(commit-context): Move suspect commits out of releases (#5639)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/issues/suspect-commits/index.mdx

- [GitLab](/product/integrations/source-code-mgmt/gitlab/)

In [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), go to **Settings > Integrations** for your organization, and click the integration you’d like to use. You’ll need to configure the integration first, if you haven’t already, and add the repository you'd like to use.

### Set Up Code Mappings

1. Navigate to **Settings > Integrations > [Integration] > Configurations**.
1. Click the "Configure" button.
1. Click the "Code Mappings" tab.
1. Set up a code mapping for each project for which you want to enable suspect commits. To create a new code mapping, click **Add Mapping**.
1. Fill out the form, then click **Save Changes**. Each form field is described below.

#### Code Mapping Form Fields

- **Project** (required) - The Sentry project.
- **Repo** (required) - The GitHub repository associated with the Sentry project above. If you have more than one GitHub repository being used per Sentry project, you'll need multiple code mappings.
- **Branch** (required) - The default branch of your code we fall back to if you don't have commit tracking set up.
- **Stack Trace Root** and **Source Code Root** (optional):

>   - If the file path in your Sentry stack trace frame matches the path to your source code, you don't need to set these values. For example, everything after the branch (`main`) matches the file path of `code.py` using a source code path of `https://github.com/MeredithAnya/testing/blob/main/code.py` so you don't need to set a **stack trace root** and **source code root**.
>   - If the filename in your Sentry stack trace frame doesn't match the path to your source code, you'll need to replace the **stack_root** part of the filename with your **source_root** to make the filename match the source code path. For example, to get `src/code.py` to match `code.py` when the source code path is `https://github.com/MeredithAnya/testing/blob/main/code.py`, change the **stack trace root** to be set as `src/`, and leave **source code root** empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If the file path in your Sentry stack trace frame matches the path to your source code, you don't need to set these values. For example, everything after the branch (`main`) matches the file path of `code.py` using a source code path of `https://github.com/MeredithAnya/testing/blob/main/code.py` so you don't need to set the **Stack Trace Root** and **Source Code Root**.
  - If the filename in your Sentry stack trace frame doesn't match the path to your source code, you'll need to replace the **stack_root** part of the filename with your **source_root** to make the filename match the source code path. For example, to get `src/code.py` to match `code.py` when the source code path is `https://github.com/MeredithAnya/testing/blob/main/code.py`, change the **Stack Trace Root** to be set as `src/`, and leave **Source Code Root** empty.
```

---
title: Suspect Commits
sidebar_order: 31
redirect_from:
  - /product/releases/suspect-commits/
description: "Learn how integrations enable suspect commits."
---

> Suspect Commits show you the most recent commit, author, and pull request that last modified the lines of code in the first in-app stack trace frame.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suspect commits show you the most recent commit to the code in the first frame of your stack trace. In the suspect commit information, we include the author of the commit and the PR in which the commit was made. 
```

> Suspect commits show you the most recent commit to the code in the first frame of your stack trace. In the suspect commit information, we include the author of the commit and the PR in which the commit was made. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suspect commits show you the most recent commit to the code in the first frame of your stack trace. In the suspect commit information, we include the author of the commit and the pull request in which the commit was made. 
```

> When you've enabled suspect commits, we can tie together issues with the commits made in your code repository, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you've enabled suspect commits, we can tie together issues with the commits made in your code repository, including the following information:
```

- Files observed in the stack trace
- Files touched by those commits
- Authors of those files

> Suspect commits and suggested assignees will then display on the **Issue Details** page in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once enabled, suspect commits and suggested assignees are displayed on the **Issue Details** page in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io):
```

![The suspect commits and suggested assignees for an issue](suspect-commits-highlighted.png)

## Enable Suspect Commits

This process assumes that source maps — or your platform-specific files for mapping transformed source code to the original source — have been uploaded (check out the docs for your [specific platform](/platforms/)).

### Connect a Repository Using Integrations

Suspect commits can be enabled using the following integrations:
- [GitHub](/product/integrations/source-code-mgmt/github/)
- [GitLab](/product/integrations/source-code-mgmt/gitlab/)

In [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), go to **Settings > Integrations** for your organization, and click the integration you’d like to use. You’ll need to configure the integration first, if you haven’t already, and add the repository you'd like to use.

> ### Set Up Code Mappings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Set Up Code Mappings
```

> 1. Navigate to **Settings > Integrations > [Integration] > Configurations**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to **Settings > Integrations > [Integration] > Configurations**.
```

1. Click the "Configure" button.
1. Click the "Code Mappings" tab.
1. Set up a code mapping for each project for which you want to enable suspect commits. To create a new code mapping, click **Add Mapping**.
1. Fill out the form, then click **Save Changes**. Each form field is described below.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Suspect Commits

> sidebar_order: 2

Reviewer: This doesn't really seem like the correct position for this under Issues. I recommend it either be made a child page of _Issues States & Triage_ or come after that page at the same level if you're concerned it'll be too buried underneath it.
```suggestion
sidebar_order: 2
```

redirect_from:
  - /product/releases/suspect-commits/
description: "Learn how integrations enable suspect commits."
---

> ## Suspect Commits & Suggested Assignees

Reviewer: The text after this heading introduces the idea of why you'd use suspect commits. Adding a heading here makes it feel like we've missed something that we needed to know before we started learning about suspect commits & suggested assignees, so we should take this out.

```suggestion
```

When you've enabled suspect commits, we can tie together the commits in the release, including:

- Files touched by those commits
- Files observed in the stack trace
- Authors of those files
- The issue number in a commit message

Suspect commits and suggested assignees will then display on the **Issue Details** page in [sentry.io](https://sentry.io):

![The suspect commits and suggested assignees for an issue](suspect-commits-highlighted.png)

## Enable Suspect Commits

> This process assumes:
> 
> - Source maps — or your platform-specific files for mapping transformed source code to the original source — have been uploaded (check out the docs for your [specific platform](/platforms/))

Reviewer: Avoid one-item lists

```suggestion
This process assumes that source maps — or your platform-specific files for mapping transformed source code to the original source — have been uploaded (check out the docs for your [specific platform](/platforms/)).
```

> #### Connect a Repository via integrations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Connect a Repository Using Integrations
```

> Suspect commits can be enabled via the following integrations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suspect commits can be enabled using the following integrations:
```

- GitHub

> - GitLab

Reviewer: Let's link to the corresponding documentation on the integrations side here

> Head to your organization’s **Settings > Integrations** page, and click on the integration you’d like to use. You’ll need to configure the integration first, if you haven’t already and add the repository you'd like to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In [sentry.io](https://sentry.io), go to **Settings > Integrations** for your organization, and click the integration you’d like to use. You’ll need to configure the integration first, if you haven’t already, and add the repository you'd like to use.
```

> #### Setup Code Mappings

Reviewer: Is this section describing how you connect a repo via integration or is connecting step 1 and setting up code mappings step 2?

Author: you need to:
1. Connect the integration and grant access to your github repo / github org
2. Add the repo in sentry
3. Add a code mapping that links your sentry project to the repo

> #### Setup Code Mappings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set Up Code Mappings
```

> 1. Navigate to **Settings > Integrations > GitHub or GitLab > Configurations**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to **Settings > Integrations > [Integration] > Configurations**.
```

> 1. Click the "Configure" button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the "Configure" button.
```

1. Click the **Code Mappings** tab.

> 1. Set up a code mapping for each project for which you want to enable. To create a new code mapping, click **Add Mapping**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set up a code mapping for each project for which you want to enable suspect commits. To create a new code mapping, click **Add Mapping**.
```

1. Fill out the form, then click **Save Changes**. Each form field is described below:

>    - **project** (required): This is the Sentry project.
>    - **repo** (required): This is the GitHub repository associated with the Sentry project above. If you have more than one GitHub repository being used per Sentry project, you'll need multiple code mappings.
>    - **branch** (required): This is the default branch of your code we fall back to if you do not have commit tracking set up.
>    - **stack trace root** and **source code root** (optional):
> 
>      1. If the file path in your Sentry stack trace frame matches the path to your source code, you do not need to set these values.
> 
>         - ex. For example, everything after the branch (`main`) matches the file path of `code.py` using a source code path of `https://github.com/MeredithAnya/testing/blob/main/code.py` so you don't need to set a **stack trace root** and **source code root**.
> 
>      1. If the filename in your Sentry stack trace frame doesn't match the path to your source code, you will need to replace the **stack_root** part of the filename with your **source_root** to make the filename match the source code path.
>         - ex. For example, to get `src/code.py` to match `code.py` when the source code path is `https://github.com/MeredithAnya/testing/blob/main/code.py`, change the **stack trace root** to be set as `src/`, and leave **source code root** empty.

Reviewer: This becomes hard to read as we get into third and fourth level lists. Restructured. Also if these fields are capitalized in the form, they should be capitalized here (I can't see this feature to confirm).

```suggestion

#### Code Mapping Form Fields

- **project** (required) - The Sentry project.
- **repo** (required) - The GitHub repository associated with the Sentry project above. If you have more than one GitHub repository being used per Sentry project, you'll need multiple code mappings.
- **branch** (required) - The default branch of your code we fall back to if you don't have commit tracking set up.
- **stack trace root** and **source code root** (optional):
 - If the file path in your Sentry stack trace frame matches the path to your source code, you don't need to set these values. For example, everything after the branch (`main`) matches the file path of `code.py` using a source code path of `https://github.com/MeredithAnya/testing/blob/main/code.py` so you don't need to set a **stack trace root** and **source code root**.
 - If the filename in your Sentry stack trace frame doesn't match the path to your source code, you'll need to replace the **stack_root** part of the filename with your **source_root** to make the filename match the source code path. For example, to get `src/code.py` to match `code.py` when the source code path is `https://github.com/MeredithAnya/testing/blob/main/code.py`, change the **stack trace root** to be set as `src/`, and leave **source code root** empty.
```

> 
> #### Which stack trace frames are considered suspect?
> 

Reviewer: Given the change I've recommended for the next section, this heading no longer makes sense. I think we can just leave the following sentence in this section unless you think it should live somewhere else.

```suggestion
```

The first frame in the stack trace is considered suspect when looking at them top-down. If the first frame is not in-app, the next frame is considered suspect.

> #### Why does an issue not have suspect commits?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Issue Missing Suspect Commits
```

There are a few reasons why an issue might not have suspect commits:

> - Your GitHub or GitLab integration is not set up or has become disconnected.
> - The issue does not have a stack trace or does not have any in-app frames.
> - The stack trace does not have any in-app frames that match the code mappings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your GitHub or GitLab integration isn't set up or has become disconnected.
- The issue doesn't have a stack trace or doesn't have any in-app frames.
- The stack trace doesn't have any in-app frames that match the code mappings.
```
